Let's quickly go over (1) null, (2) undefined and (3) NaN.  Firstly, null. Null is just a reference, it points to an
empty or invalid object.
Now I'm going to show you a few things in Visual Studio Code, and I'm going to be using a plugin or
a piece of software called Quokka.
And it just allows us to see immediate JavaScript results instead of having to console.log it (in the browser) all the
time, which we can do in JSBin or even Google Chrome.
What I'm talking about is if you click on Extensions, just type "quokka" and there it is - Live Scratchpad
for JavaScript. Install that, and then you push Ctr+Shift+P to bring up the menu, and you can
just search for Quokka:New File.
It's a JavaScript file, and now we can start typing JavaScript. How cool is this?
OK, so let's get into null.
There is a bit of a bug in JavaScript because remember, null is a primitive value.
But if you go to typeof, let's just console.log typeof
null, it actually comes back as an object, and that's weird.
It should come back as the type "null", because null is an stand-alone primitive data type.
But anyway, that's just a JavaScript bug.
And the fact that we can see "object" here, that is what Quokka is doing - it's allowing us to see the immediate results
instead of us having to go to the console, open it up and have a look.
So it's just convenient for testing.
The other thing with null, is that in basic maths null is always coerced to the number zero in JavaScript. So, here is an
example. console.log, let's just go 1 + null.
It's 1.
We can go five plus null.
It's 5.
What about null less ten? It's just -10.
So you can see null is just being replaced by the number zero.
And then one more thing about null is if you negate null and you'll see later more details of how this
works,
but negation is just something that's opposite of true,
so that's the exclamation mark!
So if we negate null, we get true.
But what's kind of weird is if we go null, is that equal to false,
it's also not true.
So it's, you know, its a bid odd.
You just got to learn how to deal with it.
But I mean, if you negate null, you do get true.
OK, and one more example of null, I know you're probably over this.
Say we had a person object, let person, and we're going to get into objects in, like shortly, in
the next section,
let person be name Wally
age
go 41.
If you just type our "person", Quokka actually allows you to see what your object is, quite handy.
What we could do, is we could actually make person equal null if we wanted to erase all that data.
Now when you type out "person",
it has literally going to null.
So that's null. Let's now get on to the second data-type
that I want to chat to you about, and that is ... undefined.
Firstly, let me illustrate what about if we console.log "a", and we haven't even defined "a" yet, we haven't
put it in speech marks, so its not text.
It's not like we're doing this (see typing on screen).
This would be valid if we just put it in quotation marks,
it'll literally give us back "a".
But here we're not saying its a string.
Here, we're saying it's a variable,
because we're just placing a without quotation marks.
You're going to get a TypeReference error thrown to you from JavaScript, and that's going to throw you
an error saying that "a" is not defined.
Well, of course it's not defined.
We haven't said what it is.
So let's define "a". Let's go variable a.
And here you can see the undefined.
And the reason it's undefined is that we've initiated a variable called a, but it doesn't have a value
yet.
It's like you getting a car without a color.
So your car is kind of undefined, you haven't yet initiated it with a color.
You haven't yet assigned it with a color.
And what about doing maths with undefined?
Well, it's not going to work. Um, let's try and do "a +  10", you just gonna get (returned) "Not a Number".
Remember with null, we could do math operations.
It (null) would just be translated into zero.
Here
you are not allowed doing that. It will always just give you NaN.
The next question you're probably asking is, "is null the same as undefined?". Well, you can already tell they're a little
bit different.
But from a value point of view, JavaScript actually does treat them the same.
And I'll prove that to you now. Let's get rid of this,
let's get rid of that.
And let's go
console.log null equals undefined. And you get returned true.
But with double equals, it tests values. In JavaScript, if you put three equals, it actually tests the
type as well, and you can see that that is false.
Of course it's false - we know that null and undefined are different, they are different primitive value types.
So they are not equal to each other.
And finally, third topic, NaN. Let's quickly chat about that.
Firstly, NaN is a property of the global window Number object. NaN is the same as Number.NaN
those two are exactly the same.
And by definition, NaN stands for "not a number".
And it just means something that cannot be represented as a number. Here's an example.
console.log
sausage
times 10.
That doesn't make any sense at all.
And that's why it produces NaN.
Not a number.
And remember how I said that NaN is part of the Number object?
Well, if we go typeof(NaN), its a number.
And we just saw that before, when it was part of the Number object.
And one more thing with NaN.
It's considered to be unordered.
That means it cannot be less than, it cannot be greater than, it cannot be equal to ANYTHING, even itself, which
is a bit strange.
But have a look here. Let me prove that to you now. NaN is less than one, is false.
What about greater than one?
False.
What about if it is equal to itself?
False! Isn't that strange?
I find that very strange.
If it's never equal to itself, how do you ever test whether something is not a number?
Luckily, JavaScript has provided us with an inbuilt function called isNaN().
So how that works is, console.log(isNan(NaN)), and there you go,
that is true.
And that, my friends, is NaN.
And now for a quick summary. Let's just go over those three things very quickly again.
One.
Null. Null,
we saw, is a primitive data-type
although JavaScript has a bug because when you go typeof(null), it tells you it's an object.
And when you perform arithmetic operations on null, it translates null to zero. And you can treat
that as a zero number.
Null just means nothing.
That's null. Two, undefined. Undefined as we saw is when you declare a variable, but you haven't yet
assigned it a value. And undefined you cannot use in maths, it'll just become an NaN - not a number.
Which brings us to "not a number". Not a number is, as what it says,
it's something that cannot be converted into a number.
And luckily for us, JavaScript has provided us with an inbuilt function called isNan(), which allows
us, which allows you and I, to actually test whether the value we're working with is a number or not.
I hope this helps.
Let's move on.